___________________________________RELATIONS 2______________________________________
SAN:  ==== War in Afghanistan ====

Early in his presidency, Obama moved to bolster U. S.  troop strength in Afghanistan.
SAN:  Obama resigned from the Illinois Senate in November 2004 following his election to the U. S.  Senate.
SAN:  In 2013, the Obama Administration filed briefs that urged the Supreme Court to rule in favor of same-sex couples in the cases of Hollingsworth v.  Perry (regarding same-sex marriage) and United States v.  Windsor (regarding the Defense of Marriage Act).
SAN:  On November 7, 2009, a health care bill featuring the public option was passed in the House.
SAN:  Obama intervened in the troubled automotive industry in March 2009, renewing loans for General Motors (GM) and Chrysler to continue operations while reorganizing.
SAN:  The Obama administration said that the payment in cash was because of the "effectiveness of U. S.  and international sanctions. "
SAN:  He joined Davis, Miner, Barnhill & Galland, a 13-attorney law firm specializing in civil rights litigation and neighborhood economic development, where he was an associate for three years from 1993 to 1996, then of counsel from 1996 to 2004.
SAN:  ==== Russia ====

In March 2010, an agreement was reached with the administration of Russian President Dmitry Medvedev to replace the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty with a new pact reducing the number of long-range nuclear weapons in the arsenals of both countries by about a third.
SAN:  The Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr
SAN:  He created a campaign committee, began raising funds, and lined up political media consultant David Axelrod by August 2002.
SAN:  == Bibliography ==


== See also ==


=== Politics ===
DREAM Act
Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986
IRS targeting controversy
Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012
National Broadband Plan (United States)
Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy
Social policy of the Barack Obama administration
SPEECH Act
Stay with It
White House Office of Energy and Climate Change Policy


=== Other ===
Roberts Court
Speeches of Barack Obama


=== Lists ===
Assassination threats against Barack Obama
List of African-American United States senators
List of Barack Obama 2008 presidential campaign endorsements
List of Barack Obama 2012 presidential campaign endorsements
List of federal political scandals, 2009–17
List of people granted executive clemency by Barack Obama
List of things named after Barack Obama


== References ==


=== Works cited ===


== Further reading ==


== External links ==


=== Official ===
Official website of The Obama Foundation
Official website of the Barack Obama Presidential Library
Official website of Organizing for Action
White House biography


=== Other ===
Column archive at The Huffington Post
Barack Obama at Curlie

United States Congress.
SAN:  After graduating from high school in 1979, Obama moved to Los Angeles to attend Occidental College on a full scholarship.
SAN:  In mid-1981, Obama traveled to Indonesia to visit his mother and half-sister Maya, and visited the families of college friends in Pakistan and India for three weeks.
MAYA:_ In mid-1981, Obama traveled to Indonesia to visit his mother and half-sister Maya, and visited the families of college friends in Pakistan and India for three weeks. mother Maya
SAN:  On April 14, 2020, Obama endorsed his former vice president Joe Biden, the presumptive Democratic nominee, for president in the 2020 election, stating that he has "all the qualities we need in a president right now. "
SAN:  Obama halted the sale of guided munition technology to Saudi Arabia after Saudi warplanes targeted a funeral in Yemen's capital Sanaa, killing more than 140 people.
SAN:  In February 2021, Obama and musician Bruce Springsteen started a podcast called Renegades: Born in the USA where the two talk about "their backgrounds, music and their 'enduring love of America. '"
SAN:  After graduating, Obama worked for about a year at the Business International Corporation, where he was a financial researcher and writer, then as a project coordinator for the New York Public Interest Research Group on the City College of New York campus for three months in 1985.
SAN:  After graduating with a JD degree magna cum laude from Harvard in 1991, he returned to Chicago.
SAN:  In 2011, Obama signed a four-year renewal of the Patriot Act.
SAN:  Final judgment was issued on May 13, 1998, with Citibank Federal Savings Bank agreeing to pay attorney fees.
SAN:  Five days later, he signed the reauthorization of the State Children's Health Insurance Program to cover an additional four million uninsured children.
SAN:  His concession speech after the New Hampshire primary was set to music by independent artists as the music video "Yes We Can", which was viewed ten million times on YouTube in its first month and received a Daytime Emmy Award.
SAN:  In December 2013, Obama declared that growing income inequality is a "defining challenge of our time" and called on Congress to bolster the safety net and raise wages.
SAN:  ==== Iran nuclear talks ====

On October 1, 2009, the Obama administration went ahead with a Bush administration program, increasing nuclear weapons production.
SAN:  The field narrowed to a duel between Obama and Senator Hillary Clinton after early contests, with the race remaining close throughout the primary process but with Obama gaining a steady lead in pledged delegates due to better long-range planning, superior fundraising, dominant organizing in caucus states, and better exploitation of delegate allocation rules.
SAN:  On June 19, 2008, Obama became the first major-party presidential candidate to turn down public financing in the general election since the system was created in 1976.
SAN:  This came on the heels of the nationwide strikes of fast-food workers and Pope Francis' criticism of inequality and trickle-down economics.
SAN:  During that time, Barack's father completed his undergraduate degree in economics in Hawaii, graduating in June 1962.
SAN:  Obama held assignments on the Senate Committees for Foreign Relations, Environment and Public Works and Veterans' Affairs through December 2006.
SAN:  In a February 2009 poll conducted in Western Europe and the U. S.  by Harris Interactive for France 24 and the International Herald Tribune, Obama was rated as the most respected world leader, as well as the most powerful.
SAN:  Within minutes of the President's announcement from Washington, DC, late in the evening on May 1, there were spontaneous celebrations around the country as crowds gathered outside the White House, and at New York City's Ground Zero and Times Square.
SAN:  From April to October 1992, Obama directed Illinois's Project Vote, a voter registration campaign with ten staffers and seven hundred volunteer registrars; it achieved its goal of registering 150,000 of 400,000 unregistered African Americans in the state, leading Crain's Chicago Business to name Obama to its 1993 list of "40 under Forty" powers to be.
SAN:  The Obama administration asked Congress to allocate money toward funding the Iron Dome program in response to the waves of Palestinian rocket attacks on Israel.
SAN:  The choice of the announcement site was viewed as symbolic because it was also where Abraham Lincoln delivered his historic "House Divided" speech in 1858.
SAN:  In 2008, a year after beginning his campaign, and after a close primary campaign against Hillary Clinton, he was nominated by the Democratic Party for president.
SAN:  The co-chairs of the Task Force were Vice President Joe Biden and Jarrett.
SAN:  In January 2007, Obama and Senator Feingold introduced a corporate jet provision to the Honest Leadership and Open Government Act, which was signed into law in September 2007.
SAN:  On October 9, 2009, the Norwegian Nobel Committee announced that Obama had won the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize "for his extraordinary efforts to strengthen international diplomacy and cooperation between peoples. "
SAN:  The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development credits the much faster growth in the United States to the stimulus plan of the U. S.  and the austerity measures in the European Union.
SAN:  He experienced a small poll bounce shortly after the death of Osama bin Laden on May 2, 2011.
SAN:  Biographical Directory of the United States Congress.
SAN:  The Obamas had two Portuguese Water Dogs; the first, a male named Bo, was a gift from Senator Ted Kennedy.
SAN:  ==== Israel ====

During the initial years of the Obama administration, the U. S.  increased military cooperation with Israel, including increased military aid, re-establishment of the U. S. -Israeli Joint Political Military Group and the Defense Policy Advisory Group, and an increase in visits among high-level military officials of both countries.
SAN:  7 GPA.
SAN:  Obama's Nobel Prize was viewed skeptically in subsequent years, especially after the director of the Nobel Institute, Geir Lundestad, said that Obama's Peace Prize did not have the desired effect of encouraging the President.
SAN:  In March 2010, the CBO estimated that the net effect of both laws will be a reduction in the federal deficit by $143 billion over the first decade.
SAN:  As multiple efforts by BP failed, some in the media and public expressed confusion and criticism over various aspects of the incident, and stated a desire for more involvement by Obama and the federal government.
SAN:  "I've got relatives who look like Bernie Mac, and I've got relatives who look like Margaret Thatcher. "
SAN:  Obama received national attention in 2004 with his March Senate primary win, his well-received July Democratic National Convention keynote address, and his landslide November election to the Senate.
SAN:  At the Democratic National Convention in Charlotte, North Carolina, Obama and Joe Biden were formally nominated by former President Bill Clinton as the Democratic Party candidates for president and vice president in the general election.
SAN:  He ordered the closing of the Guantanamo Bay detention camp, but Congress prevented the closure by refusing to appropriate the required funds and preventing moving any Guantanamo detainee.
SAN:  Obama resigned his Senate seat on November 16, 2008, to focus on his transition period for the presidency.
SAN:  Obama lived with his mother and half-sister, Maya Soetoro, in Hawaii for three years from 1972 to 1975 while his mother was a graduate student in anthropology at the University of Hawaii.
MAYA:_ Obama lived with his mother and half-sister, Maya Soetoro, in Hawaii for three years from 1972 to 1975 while his mother was a graduate student in anthropology at the University of Hawaii. mother Maya Soetoro
MAYA:_ Obama lived with his mother and half-sister, Maya Soetoro, in Hawaii for three years from 1972 to 1975 while his mother was a graduate student in anthropology at the University of Hawaii. sister Maya Soetoro
SAN:  The Obama daughters attended the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools.
SAN:  In December 2008 and in 2012, Time magazine named Obama as its Person of the Year.
SAN:  By passing the legislation, Congress was able to prevent a U. S.  government default on its obligations.
SAN:  CIA head Leon Panetta reported this intelligence to President Obama in March 2011.
SAN:  His mother, Ann Dunham (1942–1995), was born in Wichita, Kansas; she was mostly of English descent, with some German, Irish, Scottish, Swiss, and Welsh ancestry.
MAYA:_ His mother, Ann Dunham (1942–1995), was born in Wichita, Kansas; she was mostly of English descent, with some German, Irish, Scottish, Swiss, and Welsh ancestry. mother Ann Dunham
MAYA:_ His mother, Ann Dunham (1942–1995), was born in Wichita, Kansas; she was mostly of English descent, with some German, Irish, Scottish, Swiss, and Welsh ancestry. mother Welsh
SAN:  The Task Force was a development out of the White House Council on Women and Girls and Office of the Vice President of the United States, and prior to that the 1994 Violence Against Women Act first drafted by Biden.
SAN:  In foreign policy, he ordered military interventions in Iraq and Syria in response to gains made by ISIL after the 2011 withdrawal from Iraq, promoted discussions that led to the 2015 Paris Agreement on global climate change, oversaw and ultimately apologized for the deadly Kunduz hospital airstrike, continued the process of ending U. S.  combat operations in Afghanistan in 2016, initiated sanctions against Russia following the invasion in Ukraine and again after interference in the 2016 U. S.  elections, brokered the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action nuclear deal with Iran, and normalized U. S.  relations with Cuba.
SAN:  On January 5, 2017, the United States House of Representatives voted 342–80 to condemn the UN Resolution.
SAN:  Obama has a half-sister with whom he was raised (Maya Soetoro-Ng) and seven other half-siblings from his Kenyan father's family—six of them living.
SAN:  During Obama's first presidential campaign in May 2008, he resigned from Trinity after some of Wright's statements were criticized.
SAN:  On June 7, 2008, Clinton ended her campaign and endorsed Obama.
SAN:  During his pre-inauguration transition period and continuing into his presidency, Obama delivered a series of weekly Internet video addresses.
SAN:  On September 19, while delivering the keynote address at Goalkeepers, Obama admitted his frustration with Republicans backing "a bill that will raise costs, reduce coverage, and roll back protections for older Americans and people with pre-existing conditions. "
SAN:  ==== 2004 U. S.  Senate campaign ====

In May 2002, Obama commissioned a poll to assess his prospects in a 2004 U. S.  Senate race.
SAN:  The main reforms include: the Affordable Care Act (ACA or "Obamacare"), although without a public health insurance option; the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; and the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010.
SAN:  Obama's parents met in 1960 in a Russian language class at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, where his father was a foreign student on a scholarship.
SAN:  In order to advance the deal, the Obama administration shielded Hezbollah from the Drug Enforcement Administration's Project Cassandra investigation regarding drug smuggling and from the Central Intelligence Agency.
SAN:  Obama hosted the inaugural summit of the Obama Foundation in Chicago from October 31 to November 1, 2017.
SAN:  In January 2007, he left the Environment and Public Works committee and took additional assignments with Health, Education, Labor and Pensions and Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs.
SAN:  On March 11, 2009, Obama created the White House Council on Women and Girls, which formed part of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs, having been established by Executive Order 13506 with a broad mandate to advise him on issues relating to the welfare of American women and girls.
SAN:  === 2012 ===

On April 4, 2011, Obama filed election papers with the Federal Election Commission and then announced his reelection campaign for 2012 in a video titled "It Begins with Us" that he posted on his website.
SAN:  Decisions by Republican incumbent Peter Fitzgerald and his Democratic predecessor Carol Moseley Braun to not participate in the election resulted in wide-open Democratic and Republican primary contests involving 15 candidates.
SAN:  In 1988, he enrolled in Harvard Law School, where he was the first black president of the Harvard Law Review.
SAN:  According to Pew Research Center and United States Bureau of Justice Statistics, from December 31, 2009, to December 31, 2015, inmates sentenced in U. S.  federal custody declined by five percent.
SAN:  The next day, on Obama's orders, the U. S.  military took part in air strikes to destroy the Libyan government's air defense capabilities to protect civilians and enforce a no-fly-zone, including the use of Tomahawk missiles, B-2 Spirits, and fighter jets.
SAN:  As a candidate for the Illinois state senate in 1996, Obama stated he favored legalizing same-sex marriage.
SAN:  He ended plans for a return of human spaceflight to the moon and development of the Ares I rocket, Ares V rocket and Constellation program, in favor of funding Earth science projects, a new rocket type, research and development for an eventual crewed mission to Mars, and ongoing missions to the International Space Station.
SAN:  He nominated Sonia Sotomayor on May 26, 2009, to replace retiring Associate Justice David Souter; she was confirmed on August 6, 2009, becoming the first Supreme Court Justice of Hispanic descent.
SAN:  Obama's mother was survived by her Kansas-born mother, Madelyn Dunham, until her death on November 2, 2008, two days before his election to the Presidency.
MAYA:_ Obama's mother was survived by her Kansas-born mother, Madelyn Dunham, until her death on November 2, 2008, two days before his election to the Presidency. mother Madelyn Dunham
SAN:  Obama's peace prize was called a "stunning surprise" by The New York Times.
SAN:  On June 28, 2012, the Supreme Court ruled by a 5–4 vote in National Federation of Independent Business v.  Sebelius that the mandate was constitutional under the U. S.  Congress's taxing authority.
SAN:  == Legacy ==

Obama's most significant legacy is generally considered to be the Affordable Care Act (ACA), provisions of which went into effect from 2010 to 2020.
SAN:  The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act and Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act served as economic stimuli amidst the Great Recession.
SAN:  He is one of the three United States senators moved directly from the U. S.  Senate to the White House, the others are Warren G.  Harding and John F.  Kennedy.
SAN:  George Robertson, a former UK defense secretary and NATO secretary-general, said Obama had "allowed Putin to jump back on the world stage and test the resolve of the West", adding that the legacy of this disaster would last.
SAN:  == Post-presidency (2017–present) ==

Obama's presidency ended on January 20, 2017, upon the inauguration of his successor, Donald Trump.
SAN:  In late August 1961, a few weeks after he was born, Barack and his mother moved to the University of Washington in Seattle, where they lived for a year.
SAN:  === Education ===

At the age of six, Obama and his mother had moved to Indonesia to join his step-father.
SAN:  ==== Africa ====
Obama spoke in front of the African Union in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, on July 29, 2015, the first sitting U. S.  president to do so.
SAN:  According to the Gallup Organization, Obama began his presidency with a 68 percent approval rating before gradually declining for the rest of the year, and eventually bottoming out at 41 percent in August 2010, a trend similar to Ronald Reagan's and Bill Clinton's first years in office.
SAN:  On October 21, 2011, President Obama announced that all U. S.  troops would leave Iraq in time to be "home for the holidays. "
SAN:  A 2018 survey of historians by the American Political Science Association ranked Obama the 8th-greatest American President.
SAN:  After graduating, he became a civil rights attorney and an academic, teaching constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004.
SAN:  In March 2015, Obama declared that he had authorized U. S.  forces to provide logistical and intelligence support to the Saudis in their military intervention in Yemen, establishing a "Joint Planning Cell" with Saudi Arabia.
SAN:  During his 2004 general election campaign for the U. S.  Senate, police representatives credited Obama for his active engagement with police organizations in enacting death penalty reforms.
SAN:  Obama won 52.
SAN:  He also cosponsored the Secure America and Orderly Immigration Act.
SAN:  In 2013, Jeffrey Goldberg reported that, in Obama's view, "with each new settlement announcement, Netanyahu is moving his country down a path toward near-total isolation. "
SAN:  In January 2003, Obama became chairman of the Illinois Senate's Health and Human Services Committee when Democrats, after a decade in the minority, regained a majority.
SAN:  He attended Punahou School—a private college preparatory school—with the aid of a scholarship from fifth grade until he graduated from high school in 1979.
SAN:  On May 25, 2011, Obama became the first President of the United States to address both houses of the UK Parliament in Westminster Hall, London.
SAN:  In March, as forces loyal to Gaddafi advanced on rebels across Libya, calls for a no-fly zone came from around the world, including Europe, the Arab League, and a resolution passed unanimously by the U. S.  Senate.
SAN:  ==== Libya ====

In February 2011, protests in Libya began against long-time dictator Muammar Gaddafi as part of the Arab Spring.
SAN:  His administration filed briefs that urged the Supreme Court to strike down same-sex marriage bans as unconstitutional (United States v.  Windsor and Obergefell v.  Hodges); same-sex marriage was legalized nationwide in 2015 after the Court ruled so in Obergefell.
SAN:  In the March 2004 primary election, Obama won in an unexpected landslide—which overnight made him a rising star within the national Democratic Party, started speculation about a presidential future, and led to the reissue of his memoir, Dreams from My Father.
SAN:  Hate Crimes Prevention Act expanded existing federal hate crime laws in the United States to apply to crimes motivated by a victim's actual or perceived gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability, and dropped the prerequisite that the victim be engaged in a federally protected activity.
SAN:  Obama won Best Spoken Word Album Grammy Awards for abridged audiobook versions of Dreams from My Father in February 2006 and for The Audacity of Hope in February 2008.
SAN:  Obama also sponsored a Senate amendment to the State Children's Health Insurance Program, providing one year of job protection for family members caring for soldiers with combat-related injuries.
SAN:  During his summers, he returned to Chicago, where he worked as a summer associate at the law firms of Sidley Austin in 1989 and Hopkins & Sutter in 1990.
SAN:  Some Representatives questioned whether Obama had the constitutional authority to order military action in addition to questioning its cost, structure and aftermath.
SAN:  ==== University of Chicago Law School and civil rights attorney ====
In 1991, Obama accepted a two-year position as Visiting Law and Government Fellow at the University of Chicago Law School to work on his first book.
SAN:  Obama delivered his acceptance speech at Invesco Field at Mile High stadium to a crowd of about eighty-four thousand; the speech was viewed by over three million people worldwide.
SAN:  This is the largest decline in sentenced inmates in U. S.  federal custody since Democratic President Jimmy Carter.
SAN:  Netanyahu strongly criticized the Obama Administration's actions, and the Israeli government withdrew its annual dues from the organization, which totaled $6 million, on January 6, 2017.
SAN:  At the Democratic National Convention in Denver, Colorado, Hillary Clinton called for her supporters to endorse Obama, and she and Bill Clinton gave convention speeches in his support.
SAN:  Obama substantially escalated the use of drone strikes against suspected militants and terrorists associated with al-Qaeda and the Taliban.
SAN:  According to White House and CBO figures, the maximum share of income that enrollees would have to pay would vary depending on their income relative to the federal poverty level.
SAN:  By contrast, the federal prison population increased significantly under presidents Ronald Reagan, George H.  W.  Bush, Bill Clinton, and George W.  Bush.
SAN:  He proposed to her twice, but both Jager and her parents turned him down.
SAN:  John McCain was nominated as the Republican candidate, and he selected Sarah Palin as his running mate.
SAN:  His speech was well received and elevated his status within the Democratic Party.
SAN:  Following the 2013 global surveillance disclosures by whistleblower Edward Snowden, Obama condemned the leak as unpatriotic, but called for increased restrictions on the NSA to address violations of privacy.
SAN:  Despite approval ratings dropping to 39 percent in late-2013 due to the ACA roll-out, they climbed to 50 percent in January 2015 according to Gallup.
SAN:  Recalling his early childhood, Obama said: "That my father looked nothing like the people around me—that he was black as pitch, my mother white as milk—barely registered in my mind. "
SAN:  Obama and Medvedev signed the New START treaty in April 2010, and the U. S.  Senate ratified it in December 2010.
SAN:  He ordered military involvement in Libya for the implementation of the UN Security Council Resolution 1973, contributing to the overthrow of Muammar Gaddafi.
SAN:  The New York Times.
SAN:  Robinson was assigned for three months as Obama's adviser at the firm, and she joined him at several group social functions but declined his initial requests to date.
SAN:  Obama attempted to reach out to Arab leaders by granting his first interview to an Arab satellite TV network, Al Arabiya.
SAN:  Obama nominated Elena Kagan on May 10, 2010 to replace retiring Associate Justice John Paul Stevens.
SAN:  The lifting of the ban was celebrated by Immigration Equality.
SAN:  Obama signed many landmark bills into law during his first two years in office.
SAN:  In a major space policy speech in April 2010, Obama announced a planned change in direction at NASA, the U. S.  space agency.
SAN:  Hate Crimes Prevention Act, a measure that expanded the 1969 United States federal hate-crime law to include crimes motivated by a victim's actual or perceived gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, or disability.
SAN:  Obama explained how, through working with black churches as a community organizer while in his twenties, he came to understand "the power of the African-American religious tradition to spur social change. "
SAN:  In February 2013, Obama said the U. S.  military would reduce the troop level in Afghanistan from 68,000 to 34,000 U. S.  troops by February 2014.
SAN:  The couple's first daughter, Malia Ann, was born in 1998, followed by a second daughter, Natasha ("Sasha"), in 2001.
MAYA:_ The couple's first daughter, Malia Ann, was born in 1998, followed by a second daughter, Natasha ("Sasha"), in 2001. daughter Malia Ann
SAN:  === Law career ===


==== Community organizer and Harvard Law School ====
Two years after graduating from Columbia, Obama moved from New York to Chicago when he was hired as director of the Developing Communities Project, a church-based community organization originally comprising eight Catholic parishes in Roseland, West Pullman, and Riverdale on Chicago's South Side.
SAN:  ==== LGBT rights and same-sex marriage ====
On October 8, 2009, Obama signed the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr
SAN:  In May 2018, Obama criticized President Trump's decision to withdraw from the nuclear deal with Iran under the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action saying "the deal was working and it was in U. S.  interests. "
SAN:  ==== Religious views ====
Obama is a Protestant Christian whose religious views developed in his adult life.
SAN:  Obama met Trinity United Church of Christ pastor Jeremiah Wright in October 1987 and became a member of Trinity in 1992.
SAN:  During his July 2015 trip, Obama also was the first U. S.  president ever to visit Kenya, which is the homeland of his father.
SAN:  The items, "a whole bowl full", include rosary beads given to him by Pope Francis, a figurine of the Hindu deity Hanuman, a Coptic cross from Ethiopia, a small Buddha statue given by a monk, and a metal poker chip that used to be the lucky charm of a motorcyclist in Iowa.
SAN:  He previously served as a U. S.  senator from Illinois from 2005 to 2008 and as an Illinois state senator from 1997 to 2004.
SAN:  In 1994, he was listed as one of the lawyers in Buycks-Roberson v.  Citibank Fed.
SAN:  Since moving to Washington, D. C. , in 2009, the Obama family has attended several Protestant churches, including Shiloh Baptist Church and St.  John's Episcopal Church, as well as Evergreen Chapel at Camp David, but the members of the family do not attend church on a regular basis.
SAN:  === Foreign policy ===

In February and March 2009, Vice President Joe Biden and Secretary of State Hillary Clinton made separate overseas trips to announce a "new era" in U. S.  foreign relations with Russia and Europe, using the terms "break" and "reset" to signal major changes from the policies of the preceding administration.
SAN:  He left to attend graduate school on a scholarship at Harvard University, where he earned an M. A.  in economics.
SAN:  Over the following months the White House set terms for both firms' bankruptcies, including the sale of Chrysler to Italian automaker Fiat and a reorganization of GM giving the U. S.  government a temporary 60 percent equity stake in the company.
SAN:  Outside of politics, Obama has published three bestselling books: Dreams from My Father (1995), The Audacity of Hope (2006) and A Promised Land (2020).
SAN:  In July 2012, Ancestry.
SAN:  David Petraeus replaced McChrystal in June 2010, after McChrystal's staff criticized White House personnel in a magazine article.
SAN:  Bank, 94 C 4094 (N. D.  Ill. ).
SAN:  In early 2015, with the addition of the "Panther Brigade" of the 82nd Airborne Division the number of U. S.  ground troops in Iraq increased to 4,400, and by July American-led coalition air forces counted 44,000 sorties over the battlefield.
SAN:  On June 3, 2008, Senator Obama—along with Senators Tom Carper, Tom Coburn, and John McCain—introduced follow-up legislation: Strengthening Transparency and Accountability in Federal Spending Act of 2008.
SAN:  This amendment passed the full Senate in the spring of 2008.
SAN:  From age six to ten, he attended local Indonesian-language schools: Sekolah Dasar Katolik Santo Fransiskus Asisi (St.  Francis of Assisi Catholic Elementary School) for two years and Sekolah Dasar Negeri Menteng 01 (State Elementary School Menteng 01) for one and a half years, supplemented by English-language Calvert School homeschooling by his mother.
SAN:  The economy of the United States has grown faster than the other original NATO members by a wider margin under President Obama than it has anytime since the end of World War II.
SAN:  In his speeches as president, Obama did not make more overt references to race relations than his predecessors, but according to one study, he implemented stronger policy action on behalf of African-Americans than any president since the Nixon era.
SAN:  The operation took place on May 1, 2011, and resulted in the shooting death of bin Laden and the seizure of papers, computer drives and disks from the compound.
SAN:  Obama was also a member of the "choom gang", a self-named group of friends who spent time together and occasionally smoked marijuana.
SAN:  Accompanied by Japanese Prime Minister Shinzō Abe, Obama paid tribute to the victims of the bombing at the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum.
SAN:  Hate Crimes Prevention Act, the first addition to existing federal hate crime law in the United States since Democratic President Bill Clinton signed into law the Church Arson Prevention Act of 1996.
SAN:  ==== Hiroshima speech ====
On May 27, 2016, Obama became the first sitting American president to visit Hiroshima, Japan, 71 years after the U. S.  atomic bombing of Hiroshima towards the end of World War II.
SAN:  Obama reduced the secrecy given to presidential records.
SAN:  Obama also has roots in Ireland; he met with his Irish cousins in Moneygall in May 2011.
SAN:  In the wake of a chemical weapons attack in Syria, formally blamed by the Obama administration on the Assad government, Obama chose not to enforce the "red line" he had pledged and, rather than authorize the promised military action against Assad, went along with the Russia-brokered deal that led to Assad giving up chemical weapons; however attacks with chlorine gas continued.
SAN:  Obama visited the Gulf, announced a federal investigation, and formed a bipartisan commission to recommend new safety standards, after a review by Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar and concurrent Congressional hearings.
SAN:  In June 2015, the Court ruled 6–3 in King v.  Burwell that subsidies to help individuals and families purchase health insurance were authorized for those doing so on both the federal exchange and state exchanges, not only those purchasing plans "established by the State", as the statute reads.
SAN:  == Presidency (2009–2017) ==


=== First 100 days ===

The inauguration of Barack Obama as the 44th president took place on January 20, 2009.
SAN:  In July 2010, the Federal Reserve noted that economic activity continued to increase, but its pace had slowed, and chairman Ben Bernanke said the economic outlook was "unusually uncertain".
SAN:  In a similar poll conducted by Harris in May 2009, Obama was rated as the most popular world leader, as well as the one figure most people would pin their hopes on for pulling the world out of the economic downturn.
SAN:  He also ordered the military operation that resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden.
SAN:  Since leaving office, Obama has remained active in Democratic politics, including campaigning for candidates in the 2018 US elections, appearing at the 2020 Democratic National Convention and campaigning for his former vice president Joe Biden during the 2020 presidential election.
SAN:  In December 2007, Money Magazine estimated Obama's net worth at $1.
SAN:  The family currently rents a house in Kalorama, Washington, D. C.  On March 2, 2017, the John F.  Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum awarded the Profile in Courage Award to Obama "for his enduring commitment to democratic ideals and elevating the standard of political courage. "
SAN:  In 2016, the Obama administration proposed a series of arms deals with Saudi Arabia worth $115 billion.
SAN:  It will be hosted by the University of Chicago and located in Jackson Park on the South Side of Chicago.
SAN:  Obama wrote a presidential memoir, in a $65 million deal with Penguin Random House.
SAN:  On a side note, the very same year, in December 2015, Obama started a $348 billion worth program to back the biggest U. S.  buildup of nuclear arms since Ronald Reagan left the White House.
SAN:  The CBO released a report stating that the stimulus bill increased employment by 1–2.
SAN:  On October 2, 2002, the day President Bush and Congress agreed on the joint resolution authorizing the Iraq War, Obama addressed the first high-profile Chicago anti-Iraq War rally, and spoke out against the war.
SAN:  In January 2008, Obama told Christianity Today: "I am a Christian, and I am a devout Christian.
SAN:  On August 23, 2008, Obama announced his selection of Delaware Senator Joe Biden as his vice presidential running mate.
SAN:  9 percent of the popular vote to McCain's 45.
SAN:  A Gallup poll, taken in the final days of Obama's term, showed that 68 percent of Americans believed the U. S.  had made progress on LGBT rights during Obama's eight years in office.
SAN:  On November 4, Obama won the presidency with 365 electoral votes to 173 received by McCain.
SAN:  From 1970, they lived in a wealthier neighborhood in the Menteng district of Central Jakarta.
SAN:  After two one-year extensions of his J-1 visa, Lolo returned to Indonesia in 1966.
SAN:  In 2013, Bo was joined by Sunny, a female.
SAN:  Obama left office on January 20, 2017 and continues to reside in Washington, D. C. During Obama's terms as president, the United States' reputation abroad, as well as the American economy, significantly improved.
SAN:  When they moved to Washington, D. C. , in January 2009, the girls started at the Sidwell Friends School.
SAN:  === Legislative career ===


==== Illinois Senate (1997–2004) ====

Obama was elected to the Illinois Senate in 1996, succeeding Democratic State Senator Alice Palmer from Illinois's 13th District, which, at that time, spanned Chicago South Side neighborhoods from Hyde Park–Kenwood south to South Shore and west to Chicago Lawn.
SAN:  His first public appearance since leaving the office was a seminar at the University of Chicago on April 24, where he appealed for a new generation to participate in politics.
SAN:  Obama delivered his victory speech before hundreds of thousands of supporters in Chicago's Grant Park.
SAN:  == Early life and career ==

Obama was born on August 4, 1961, at Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children in Honolulu, Hawaii.
SAN:  After Senate Republicans revealed the Better Care Reconciliation Act of 2017, their discussion draft of a health care bill to replace the Affordable Care Act, Obama released a Facebook post on June 22 calling the bill "a massive transfer of wealth from middle-class and poor families to the richest people in America. "
SAN:  After public debate during the Congressional summer recess of 2009, Obama delivered a speech to a joint session of Congress on September 9 where he addressed concerns over the proposals.
SAN:  He introduced two initiatives that bore his name: Lugar–Obama, which expanded the Nunn–Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction concept to conventional weapons; and the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006, which authorized the establishment of USAspending.
SAN:  After winning re-election by defeating Republican opponent Mitt Romney, Obama was sworn in for a second term on January 20, 2013.
SAN:  In June 1989, Obama met Michelle Robinson when he was employed as a summer associate at the Chicago law firm of Sidley Austin.
SAN:  The Bush and Obama administrations authorized spending and loan guarantees from the Federal Reserve and the Department of the Treasury.
SAN:  On August 2, 2011, after a lengthy congressional debate over whether to raise the nation's debt limit, Obama signed the bipartisan Budget Control Act of 2011.
SAN:  The purchase of an adjacent lot—and sale of part of it to Obama by the wife of developer, campaign donor and friend Tony Rezko—attracted media attention because of Rezko's subsequent indictment and conviction on political corruption charges that were unrelated to Obama.
SAN:  Meeting with his national security advisers over the course of the next six weeks, Obama rejected a plan to bomb the compound, and authorized a "surgical raid" to be conducted by United States Navy SEALs.
SAN:  She was confirmed on August 5, 2010, bringing the number of women sitting simultaneously on the Court to three for the first time in American history.
SAN:  ==== Health care reform ====

Obama called for Congress to pass legislation reforming health care in the United States, a key campaign promise and a top legislative goal.
SAN:  On May 9, 2012, shortly after the official launch of his campaign for re-election as president, Obama said his views had evolved, and he publicly affirmed his personal support for the legalization of same-sex marriage, becoming the first sitting U. S.  president to do so.
SAN:  Obama addressed supporters and volunteers at Chicago's McCormick Place after his reelection and said: "Tonight you voted for action, not politics as usual.
SAN:  He sponsored the Iran Sanctions Enabling Act supporting divestment of state pension funds from Iran's oil and gas industry, which was never enacted but later incorporated in the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010; and co-sponsored legislation to reduce risks of nuclear terrorism.
SAN:  The costs of these provisions are offset by taxes, fees, and cost-saving measures, such as new Medicare taxes for those in high-income brackets, taxes on indoor tanning, cuts to the Medicare Advantage program in favor of traditional Medicare, and fees on medical devices and pharmaceutical companies; there is also a tax penalty for those who do not obtain health insurance, unless they are exempt due to low income or other reasons.
SAN:  In 2016, the Pentagon ended the policy that barred transgender people from serving openly in the military.
SAN:  === Domestic policy ===

The first bill signed into law by Obama was the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009, relaxing the statute of limitations for equal-pay lawsuits.
SAN:  In his first few days in office, Obama issued executive orders and presidential memoranda directing the U. S.  military to develop plans to withdraw troops from Iraq.
SAN:  Appearances on C-SPAN
"Barack Obama collected news and commentary".
SAN:  "Obama is frequently referred to as an exceptional orator.
SAN:  By the end of 2014, 3,100 American ground troops were committed to the conflict and 16,000 sorties were flown over the battlefield, primarily by U. S.  Air Force and Navy pilots.
SAN:  The deal titled the "Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action" saw sanctions removed in exchange for measures that would prevent Iran from producing nuclear weapons.
SAN:  On July 14, 2009, House Democratic leaders introduced a 1,017-page plan for overhauling the U. S.  health care system, which Obama wanted Congress to approve by the end of 2009.
SAN:  The 2008 awarding was for his historic candidacy and election, which Time described as "the steady march of seemingly impossible accomplishments. "
SAN:  In May 2020, Obama criticized President Trump for his handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, calling his response to the crisis "an absolute chaotic disaster", and stating that the consequences of the Trump presidency have been "our worst impulses unleashed, our proud reputation around the world badly diminished, and our democratic institutions threatened like never before. "
SAN:  In his youth, Obama went by the nickname "Barry".
SAN:  He was selected as an editor of the Harvard Law Review at the end of his first year, president of the journal in his second year, and research assistant to the constitutional scholar Laurence Tribe while at Harvard for two years.
SAN:  In 2009, he threw out the ceremonial first pitch at the All-Star Game while wearing a White Sox jacket.
SAN:  In the November 2004 general election, Obama won with 70 percent of the vote, the largest margin of victory for a Senate candidate in Illinois history.
SAN:  Barack and Michelle Obama signed a deal on May 22, 2018, to produce docu-series, documentaries and features for Netflix under the Obamas' newly formed production company, Higher Ground Productions.
SAN:  He met with Mahmoud Abbas before Abbas became President of the Palestinian National Authority, and gave a speech at the University of Nairobi in which he condemned corruption within the Kenyan government.
SAN:  Obama also established the White House Task Force to Protect Students from Sexual Assault through a government memorandum on January 22, 2014, with a broad mandate to advise him on issues relating to sexual assault on college and university campuses throughout the United States.
SAN:  Obama's father, Barack Obama Sr  (1934–1982), was a married Luo Kenyan from Nyang'oma Kogelo.
MAYA:_ Obama's father, Barack Obama Sr.  (1934–1982), was a married Luo Kenyan from Nyang'oma Kogelo. father Barack Obama Sr.
SAN:  === Family and personal life ===

In a 2006 interview, Obama highlighted the diversity of his extended family: "It's like a little mini-United Nations," he said.
SAN:  The ACA includes health-related provisions, most of which took effect in 2014, including expanding Medicaid eligibility for people making up to 133 percent of the federal poverty level (FPL) starting in 2014, subsidizing insurance premiums for people making up to 400 percent of the FPL ($88,000 for family of four in 2010) so their maximum "out-of-pocket" payment for annual premiums will be from 2 percent to 9.
SAN:  In February 1981, Obama made his first public speech, calling for Occidental to participate in the disinvestment from South Africa in response to that nation's policy of apartheid.
SAN:  Turning to elective politics, he represented the 13th district in the Illinois Senate from 1997 until 2004, when he ran for the U. S.  Senate.
SAN:  On December 24, 2009, the Senate passed its own bill—without a public option—on a party-line vote of 60–39.
SAN:  Their main opponents were Republicans Mitt Romney, the former governor of Massachusetts, and Representative Paul Ryan of Wisconsin.
SAN:  According to Julian Zelizer's The Presidency of Barack Obama, under Obama's presidency, the "Democrats lost more than one thousand seats in state legislatures, governors’ mansions, and Congress during his time in office. "
SAN:  Two days later, Obama partnered with former presidents Jimmy Carter, George H.  W.  Bush, Bill Clinton, and George W.  Bush to work with One America Appeal to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma in the Gulf Coast and Texas communities.
SAN:  Popularly dubbed the Cuban Thaw, The New Republic deemed the Cuban Thaw to be "Obama's finest foreign policy achievement. "
SAN:  In 2012, Obama authorized multiple programs run by the CIA and the Pentagon to train anti-Assad rebels.
SAN:  After graduating from Columbia University in 1983, he worked as a community organizer in Chicago.
SAN:  Obama lived with anthropologist Sheila Miyoshi Jager while he was a community organizer in Chicago in the 1980s.
SAN:  From 1994 to 2002, Obama served on the boards of directors of the Woods Fund of Chicago—which in 1985 had been the first foundation to fund the Developing Communities Project—and of the Joyce Foundation.
SAN:  In response to the unanimous passage of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973 on March 17, Gaddafi—who had previously vowed to "show no mercy" to the rebels of Benghazi—announced an immediate cessation of military activities.
SAN:  In 2016, the last year of his presidency, the U. S.  dropped 26,171 bombs on seven different countries.
SAN:  Although an April 2010, survey of members of the National Association for Business Economics showed an increase in job creation (over a similar January survey) for the first time in two years, 73 percent of 68 respondents believed the stimulus bill has had no impact on employment.
SAN:  The "Complex Modernization" initiative expanded two existing nuclear sites to produce new bomb parts.
SAN:  ==== Death of Osama bin Laden ====

Starting with information received from Central Intelligence Agency operatives in July 2010, the CIA developed intelligence over the next several months that determined what they believed to be the hideout of Osama bin Laden.
SAN:  Expressing puzzlement over questions about whether he is "black enough", Obama told an August 2007 meeting of the National Association of Black Journalists that "we're still locked in this notion that if you appeal to white folks then there must be something wrong. "
SAN:  He served on the board of directors of the Chicago Annenberg Challenge from 1995 to 2002, as founding president and chairman of the board of directors from 1995 to 1999.
SAN:  The compromise overcame opposition from some in both parties, and the resulting $858 billion Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 passed with bipartisan majorities in both houses of Congress before Obama signed it on December 17, 2010.
SAN:  In 1963, Dunham met Lolo Soetoro at the University of Hawaii; he was an Indonesian East–West Center graduate student in geography.
SAN:  com found a strong likelihood that Dunham was descended from John Punch, an enslaved African man who lived in the Colony of Virginia during the seventeenth century.
SAN:  After Attorney General Jeff Sessions announced the termination of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program on September 5, Obama released a Facebook post criticizing the decision.
SAN:  1 percent of the popular vote, Obama became the first Democratic president since Franklin D.  Roosevelt to win the majority of the popular vote twice.
SAN:  Obama gained 10 spots from the same survey in 2015 from the Brookings Institution that ranked him the 18th-greatest American President.
SAN:  Barack Hussein Obama II ( (listen) bə-RAHK hoo-SAYN oh-BAH-mə; born August 4, 1961) is an American lawyer, author, and politician who served as the 44th president of the United States from 2009 to 2017.
SAN:  In Dreams from My Father, Obama ties his mother's family history to possible Native American ancestors and distant relatives of Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederate States of America during the American Civil War.
MAYA:_ In Dreams from My Father, Obama ties his mother's family history to possible Native American ancestors and distant relatives of Jefferson Davis, President of the Confederate States of America during the American Civil War. mother Jefferson Davis
SAN:  Obama Sr  returned to Kenya in 1964, where he married for a third time and worked for the Kenyan government as the Senior Economic Analyst in the Ministry of Finance.
SAN:  On January 16, 2013, one month after the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, Obama signed 23 executive orders and outlined a series of sweeping proposals regarding gun control.
SAN:  As a member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Obama made official trips to Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Central Asia and Africa.
SAN:  Obama's election as the first black president of the Harvard Law Review gained national media attention and led to a publishing contract and advance for a book about race relations, which evolved into a personal memoir.
SAN:  After suffering a miscarriage, Michelle underwent in vitro fertilization to conceive their children.
SAN:  In 2000, he lost a Democratic primary race for Illinois's 1st congressional district in the United States House of Representatives to four-term incumbent Bobby Rush by a margin of two to one.
SAN:  The Vatican first became involved in 2013 when Pope Francis advised the U. S.  and Cuba to exchange prisoners as a gesture of goodwill.
SAN:  Obama selected Biden from a field speculated to include former Indiana Governor and Senator Evan Bayh and Virginia Governor Tim Kaine.
SAN:  Obama nominated three justices to the Supreme Court: Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan were confirmed as justices, while Merrick Garland was denied hearings or a vote from the Republican-majority Senate.
SAN:  Later in 1981, he transferred to Columbia University in New York City as a junior, where he majored in political science with a specialty in international relations and in English literature and lived off-campus on West 109th Street.
SAN:  The Obama administration scheduled the withdrawal of combat troops to be completed by August 2010, decreasing troop's levels from 142,000 while leaving a transitional force of about 50,000 in Iraq until the end of 2011.
SAN:  During his Senate run in 2004, he said he supported civil unions and domestic partnerships for same-sex partners but opposed same-sex marriages.
SAN:  Despite being offered a full scholarship to Northwestern University School of Law, Obama enrolled at Harvard Law School in the fall of 1988, living in nearby Somerville, Massachusetts.
SAN:  The council was chaired by Senior Advisor to the President Valerie Jarrett.
SAN:  He also became Chairman of the Senate's subcommittee on European Affairs.
SAN:  This class action lawsuit was filed in 1994 with Selma Buycks-Roberson as lead plaintiff and alleged that Citibank Federal Savings Bank had engaged in practices forbidden under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act.
SAN:  After a lengthy debate over the national debt limit, he signed the Budget Control and the American Taxpayer Relief Acts.
SAN:  In July 2004, Obama delivered the keynote address at the 2004 Democratic National Convention, seen by nine million viewers.
SAN:  In 2001, as co-chairman of the bipartisan Joint Committee on Administrative Rules, Obama supported Republican Governor Ryan's payday loan regulations and predatory mortgage lending regulations aimed at averting home foreclosures.
SAN:  Together with the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act amendment, it represents the U. S.  healthcare system's most significant regulatory overhaul and expansion of coverage since the passage of Medicare and Medicaid in 1965.
SAN:  Six weeks later, Alan Keyes accepted the Republican nomination to replace Ryan.
SAN:  Obama expressed support for Israel's right to defend itself during the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict.
SAN:  On December 10, 2013, Cuban President Raúl Castro, in a significant public moment, greeted and shook hands with Obama at the Nelson Mandela memorial service in Johannesburg.
SAN:  Reaction to the announcement was positive across party lines, including from former presidents Bill Clinton and George W.  Bush.
SAN:  On March 19, Obama continued his outreach to the Muslim world, releasing a New Year's video message to the people and government of Iran.
SAN:  A member of the Democratic Party, Obama was the first African-American  president of the United States.
SAN:  Numerous candidates entered the Democratic Party presidential primaries.
SAN:  Passed as a response to the financial crisis of 2007–08, it brought the most significant changes to financial regulation in the United States since the regulatory reform that followed the Great Depression under Democratic President Franklin D.  Roosevelt.
SAN:  In 2015, Obama was harshly criticized by Israel for advocating and signing the Iran Nuclear Deal; Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who had advocated the U. S.  congress to oppose it, said the deal was "dangerous" and "bad".
SAN:  In October 2015, the White House announced a plan to keep U. S.  Forces in Afghanistan indefinitely in light of the deteriorating security situation.
SAN:  7 million, he gave 14 percent to non-profit organizations, including $131,000 to Fisher House Foundation, a charity assisting wounded veterans' families, allowing them to reside near where the veteran is receiving medical treatments.
SAN:  Obama has also written and talked about using alcohol, marijuana, and cocaine during his teenage years to "push questions of who I was out of my mind. "
SAN:  Obama also worked as a consultant and instructor for the Gamaliel Foundation, a community organizing institute.
SAN:  In March 2010, Obama took a public stance against plans by the government of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to continue building Jewish housing projects in predominantly Arab neighborhoods of East Jerusalem.
SAN:  ==== Syrian Civil War ====

On August 18, 2011, several months after the start of the Syrian Civil War, Obama issued a written statement that said: "The time has come for President Assad to step aside. "
SAN:  The legislation enforced limits on discretionary spending until 2021, established a procedure to increase the debt limit, created a Congressional Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to propose further deficit reduction with a stated goal of achieving at least $1.
SAN:  He replaced the military commander in Afghanistan, General David D.  McKiernan, with former Special Forces commander Lt.  Gen.  Stanley A.  McChrystal in May 2009, indicating that McChrystal's Special Forces experience would facilitate the use of counterinsurgency tactics in the war.
SAN:  The Congressional Budget Office (CBO) and a broad range of economists credit Obama's stimulus plan for economic growth.
SAN:  Obama appointed two women to serve on the Supreme Court in the first two years of his presidency.
SAN:  Higher Ground's first film, American Factory, won the Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature in 2020.
SAN:  Trump retaliated by accusing Obama of having committed "the biggest political crime in American history", although he refused to say what he was talking about, telling reporters: "You know what the crime is, the crime is very obvious to everybody. "
SAN:  In 2005, the Obama family applied the proceeds of a book deal and moved from a Hyde Park, Chicago condominium to a $1.
SAN:  In 2010, Obama signed into effect the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
SAN:  ==== U. S.  Senate (2005–2008) ====

Obama was sworn in as a senator on January 3, 2005, becoming the only Senate member of the Congressional Black Caucus.
SAN:  He urged Congress to reintroduce an expired ban on military-style assault weapons, such as those used in several recent mass shootings, impose limits on ammunition magazines to 10 rounds, introduce background checks on all gun sales, pass a ban on possession and sale of armor-piercing bullets, introduce harsher penalties for gun-traffickers, especially unlicensed dealers who buy arms for criminals and approving the appointment of the head of the federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives for the first time since 2006.
SAN:  Obama signed the bill into law on March 23, 2010.
SAN:  On July 1, 2015, President Obama announced that formal diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States would resume, and embassies would be opened in Washington and Havana.
SAN:  On March 21, 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA) passed by the Senate in December was passed in the House by a vote of 219 to 212.
SAN:  7 billion in cash to Iran shortly after the deal was announced was criticized by the republican party.
SAN:  In 2019, Barack and Michelle Obama bought a home on Martha's Vineyard from Wyc Grousbeck.
SAN:  Barack Obama articles in the archive of the Chicago Tribune
Works by Barack Obama at Project Gutenberg
Works by or about Barack Obama at Internet Archive
Works by Barack Obama at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) 
Barack Obama on Nobelprize.
SAN:  == Presidential campaigns ==


=== 2008 ===

On February 10, 2007, Obama announced his candidacy for President of the United States in front of the Old State Capitol building in Springfield, Illinois.
SAN:  Obama emphasized the conservation of federal lands during his term in office.
SAN:  Six days later, on March 25, by unanimous vote of all its 28 members, NATO took over leadership of the effort, dubbed Operation Unified Protector.
SAN:  In 2011, the United States vetoed a Security Council resolution condemning Israeli settlements, with the United States being the only nation to do so.
SAN:  The Pentagon-run program was later found to have failed and was formally abandoned in October 2015.
SAN:  Obama was elected over Republican nominee John McCain in the general election and was inaugurated alongside his running mate, future-president Joe Biden, on January 20, 2009.
SAN:  He also shares distant ancestors in common with George W.  Bush and Dick Cheney, among others.
SAN:  While Obama hailed the agreement as being a step towards a more hopeful world, the deal drew strong criticism from Republican and conservative quarters, and from Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
SAN:  ISIS continued to gain ground and to commit widespread massacres and ethnic cleansing.
SAN:  In Burwell v.  Hobby Lobby the Court ruled that "closely-held" for-profit corporations could be exempt on religious grounds under the Religious Freedom Restoration Act from regulations adopted under the ACA that would have required them to pay for insurance that covered certain contraceptives.
SAN:  The family initially lived in the Menteng Dalam neighborhood in the Tebet district of South Jakarta.
SAN:  Obama was born in Honolulu, Hawaii.
SAN:  He is also primarily a Chicago Bears football fan in the NFL, but in his childhood and adolescence was a fan of the Pittsburgh Steelers, and rooted for them ahead of their victory in Super Bowl XLIII 12 days after he took office as president.
SAN:  When Trump announced his withdrawal of the United States from the Paris Agreement on June 1, Obama released a statement disagreeing with the choice.
SAN:  In foreign policy, he increased U. S.  troop levels in Afghanistan, reduced nuclear weapons with the United States–Russia New START treaty, and ended military involvement in the Iraq War.
SAN:  In March 2009, Obama reversed a Bush-era policy that had limited funding of embryonic stem cell research and pledged to develop "strict guidelines" on the research.
SAN:  As the incumbent president, he ran virtually unopposed in the Democratic Party presidential primaries, and on April 3, 2012, Obama secured the 2778 convention delegates needed to win the Democratic nomination.
SAN:  In a 2016 editorial in The New York Times, Obama compared the struggle for what he termed "common-sense gun reform" to women's suffrage and other civil rights movements in American history.
SAN:  In December 2014, after the secret meetings, it was announced that Obama, with Pope Francis as an intermediary, had negotiated a restoration of relations with Cuba, after nearly sixty years of détente.
SAN:  In July 2013, Obama expressed reservations and said he "would reject the Keystone XL pipeline if it increased carbon pollution [or] greenhouse emissions. "
SAN:  DNA testing was one of five methods used to positively identify bin Laden's corpse, which was buried at sea several hours later.
SAN:  On June 4, 2009, Obama delivered a speech at Cairo University in Egypt calling for "A New Beginning" in relations between the Islamic world and the United States and promoting Middle East peace.
SAN:  In December 2006, President Bush signed into law the Democratic Republic of the Congo Relief, Security, and Democracy Promotion Act, marking the first federal legislation to be enacted with Obama as its primary sponsor.
SAN:  In 2009, Obama signed into law the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, which contained in it the Matthew Shepard and James Byrd Jr
SAN:  In February 2020, Biden called the deportation of hundreds of thousands of people without criminal records under the Obama administration a "big mistake".
SAN:  In 2010, he signed the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act, which brought an end to "don't ask, don't tell" policy in the U. S.  armed forces that banned open service from LGB people; the law went into effect the following year.
SAN:  Obama visited Havana, Cuba for two days in March 2016, becoming the first sitting U. S.  president to arrive since Calvin Coolidge in 1928.
SAN:  Obama's expected opponent in the general election, Republican primary winner Jack Ryan, withdrew from the race in June 2004.
SAN:  In March 2009, Obama's Treasury Secretary, Timothy Geithner, took further steps to manage the financial crisis, including introducing the Public–Private Investment Program for Legacy Assets, which contains provisions for buying up to $2 trillion in depreciated real estate assets.
SAN:  Obama and McCain engaged in three presidential debates in September and October 2008.
SAN:  Obama acknowledged his youthful image in an October 2007 campaign speech, saying: "I wouldn't be here if, time and again, the torch had not been passed to a new generation.
SAN:  Many attempts by Senate Republicans to repeal the ACA, including a "skinny repeal", have thus far failed, however in 2017 the penalty for violating the individual mandate was repealed effective 2019.
SAN:  Many commentators credit Obama with averting a threatened depression and pulling the economy back from the Great Recession.
SAN:  In June 2014, following the capture of Mosul by ISIS, Obama sent 275 troops to provide support and security for U. S.  personnel and the U. S.  Embassy in Baghdad.
SAN:  On December 23, 2016, under the Obama Administration, the United States abstained from United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334, which condemned Israeli settlement building in the occupied Palestinian territories as a violation of international law, effectively allowing it to pass.
SAN:  This was only the fifth occurrence since the start of the 20th century of a head of state's being extended this invitation, following Charles de Gaulle in 1960, Nelson Mandela in 1996, Queen Elizabeth II in 2002 and Pope Benedict XVI in 2010.
SAN:  "In 1971, Obama returned to Honolulu to live with his maternal grandparents, Madelyn and Stanley Dunham.
SAN:  Obama is a supporter of the Chicago White Sox, and he threw out the first pitch at the 2005 ALCS when he was still a senator.
SAN:  He was reelected to the Illinois Senate in 1998, defeating Republican Yesse Yehudah in the general election, and was re-elected again in 2002.
SAN:  He also revoked President George W.  Bush's restoration of President Ronald Reagan's Mexico City policy which prohibited federal aid to international family planning organizations that perform or provide counseling about abortion.
SAN:  He then taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School for twelve years, first as a lecturer from 1992 to 1996, and then as a senior lecturer from 1996 to 2004.
SAN:  Obama urged Congress to ratify a 12-nation free trade pact called the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
SAN:  In August 2014, during the Sinjar massacre, Obama ordered a campaign of U. S.  airstrikes against ISIS.
SAN:  In 2011, Obama invited the 1985 Chicago Bears to the White House; the team had not visited the White House after their Super Bowl win in 1986 due to the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster.
SAN:  According to the U. S.  Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Obama administration created 11.
GEDCOM printed to output.ged
dot format printed to output.dot
Graphical representation printed to output.png
DONE
